Toy and Activity Suggestions
The following play activities can be used to work on multiple helper hand skills. The play activities are progressively graded from "easy" to "hard". 
Clinicians will need to use clinical judgement on how to present the toy, what toy to use, and how you want the infant to play with the toy to encourage the desired helper hand skill(s). 
Clinicians can also use the Baby-CIMT Arm and Hand Adventure: A Tool to Customize Play Activities to generate a custom Baby-CIMT program to work on selected helper hand skills. 
When doing the following activities, adult supervision is required for safety. Some activities include small parts and can pose a choking hazard. Parents/caregivers should regularly check toys for safety (e.g., broken pieces). 
/// safety if(input("The toy is safe")
if bool = true
    print ("Toy is safe")
if bool = false 
    print ("Toy is unsafe") ///

Initiates Use of Helper Hand: Reach and Pre-Grasp
print("can reach ? yes/no")
if (input("yes"))
    print(" :) ")
if (input("no"))
    print("1 Present toys to infant below shoulder level, initially close to infant on the helper hand side, then in midline, then on the dominant hand side")
    print("2 Progress to presenting toys further away at shoulder level on the helper hand side, then present in midline, then on the dominant hand side")
    print("3 Present toys above shoulder level and overhead in front of infant and to the side of the helper arm.)
    print("Czy zrobiles poprzednie 3 puinkty ? yes/no \n")
if (input(""))
From easier to harder:

Roll a ball back and forth to tempt infant to reach and push the ball back to you.
Place a “toy clean-up box” on the helper hand side and have the infant push toys into the box using their helper hand.
Blow bubbles and catch the bubbles on a wand to encourage the infant to reach to pop the bubbles.
Tempt the infant to play peek-a-boo by reaching to move your hand/facecloth from hiding your face
Stick suction cups on the mirror to encourage the infant to grasp or bat at them if grasp is too difficult. Gradually move the suction cups away from the infant (higher, or to the side) to encourage reaching overhead.
Play with yogurt on a mirror.
Pull magnets off a sheet pan. Can start on the floor and then place magnets on a wall/fridge.
Play “Simon Says” game, encourage arm movements overhead.
Stack and knock-over a block tower.
Push a ball up a wall using helper arm
Play tug of war with a towel or blanket.
Pull pop tube apart with adult holding one side and the infant holding the other.
Place blanket or hat on the infant’s head, encourage infant to take the object off their head.
Reach - Moves Upper Arm and Arm with Straight Elbow to Touch a Toy


Why work on this skill:

This skill will help with playing with toys and doing tasks at home and in school.
 

Tips to progress skill:

Present toys to infant below shoulder level, initially close to infant on helper hand side, then in midline, then on the dominant side.
Progress to presenting toys further away and at shoulder level on helper hand side, then in midline.
Present toys above shoulder level and overhead in front of infant and to the side of the helper arm.
 

From easier to harder:

Place toys on the floor in the midline to encourage moving the helper arm to bat at / touch toys.
Play with a toy positioned close to the body on a tray/table top.
Place pudding on a cookie tray in front of the infant on a surface far enough away to encourage reaching in front.
Have the infant push a ball, rolling it on a table with a straight elbow.
Fill a water bottle with toys and food colouring. Have the infant roll the bottle on a flat surface using their helper hand in front of their body.
Knock down block towers/bowling pins with straight elbow.
Swipe ribbons and necklaces placed on an upright surface.
Give high-5’s (elbow straight), play hand games (e.g., pat a cake) far enough away to have a straight elbow.
Push down toys with resistance.
Put magnets on a vertical surface.
Pull suction toys off from a wall placed overhead.
Grasp and throw various size balls to an adult.
Reach above shoulder to place balls inside paper rolls taped to the wall.

Holds – Helper Hand Stabilizes Toy by Weight Initially and then by Holding Toys Put in Hand


Why work on this skill:

This skill will help the infant to use their hand to stabilize toys/objects for the dominant hand to do the task.
 

Tips to progress skill:

Give toys that are easy to stabilize by weight, and do not move.
Give toys that require holding to play with.
Progress to holding large soft toys to narrower thin toys placed in the hand.
Consider adding resistance when playing (e.g., tug of war)
 

From easier to harder:

Give toys that do not move. Consider cause and effect toys (e.g., toy that lights up, makes sound, vibrates) to encourage the infant to stabilize the toy on a surface by using their hand (hand can be fisted).
Place the toy in the helper hand to encourage holding; choose a toy that will easily fit in the helper hand.
Place toys with textures, sound/light in infants hand to encourage sustained holding. 
Place easy to hold item close to infant's hand, physically prompt baby to hold. 
Place larger, lightweight toys for holding (e.g., soft stuffie) in the infant's hand.
Place narrower thing toys for holding into infant's hand.
Place toys that change shape, bend, are softer (e.g., small stuffie) in infant's hand. 
Place toys that do not change shape or bend (e.g., block) in infant's hand. 
Give toothbrush holder with toy stuck hiding inside. Infant holds toothbrush holder and adult pulls toy out. 
Give toys that encourage holding and moving of the arm (e.g., rattle, maraca) for shaking. 
Provide resistance while the infant holds and pulls the toy (e.g., tug of war). 
Squeeze squishy toy that makes sounds or lights up. 
Place stamps with larger cylindrical/knob handles in infant's hand and encourage stamping on vertical surface.
